{\rtf1\ansi \deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern Courier;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Helv;}
{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}{\f4\fswiss Arial;}{\f5\froman CG Times (WN);}{\f6\fswiss Univers 
(WN);}{\f7\froman Roman;}{\f8\fmodern Modern;}{\f9\fscript Script;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\s244 \f5\fs16\up6 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245 \f5\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\f5\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}}{\info{\title STOPBUSHELP}
{\author Martin Davidson}{\operator Martin Davidson}{\creatim\yr1994\mo4\dy10\hr13\min30}
{\revtim\yr1994\mo4\dy10\hr13\min32}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords65536}
{\nofchars65536}{\vern8368}}\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \f5\fs20 
{\plain \f5\up6 

#{\footnote main_contents}${\footnote Contents}K{\footnote Contents}}
\pard\keepn
\f4\fs8\par
\f4\fs36\b{\{bml mainicon.bmp\}} Contents\par
\f4\fs8\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
Estimation Whist is a card game which combines luck and skill to produce a
 challenging encounter. The aim of the game is to win, and to do so you must
 obtain points. The latter can be obtained by playing well, cheating, offering
 appropriately large sums of money or any other suitable methods. For more
 information see one of the following topics.\par
\par
You need a mouse to play Estimation Whist.\par
\par
To learn how to use Help, press F1, or choose How to Use Help from the Help menu.\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 Overviews\par\plain\uldb\f4\fs20
\par 
About Estimation Whist\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 The game\par\plain\uldb\f4\fs20
\par 
Playing the game\plain\uldb\v playing\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Rules of the game\plain\uldb\v rules\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Scoring\plain\uldb\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Location of controls\plain\uldb\v controls\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\par
\par
\b\f4\fs24 How to...\par \plain \uldb\f4\fs20
\par
Set game options\plain\uldb\v options\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configure the random things\plain\uldb\v random\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Cheat\plain\uldb\v cheat\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page 

#{\footnote about}${\footnote About Estimation Whist}
K{\footnote About Estimation Whist}+{\footnote Thegame:01}
\pard\keepn
\f4\fs8\par
\f4\fs36\b{\{bml mdicon.bmp\}} About Estimation Whist\par
\f4\fs8\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
The author\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
Estimation Whist is the follow up card game to Stop the Bus.  Version 1.0 was released back in 1994 (20th May 1994), and it has taken another eight years to get to version 1.1, which fixes some minor bugs with the colours on the screen (the program now gets colour settings information from Windows rather than guessing at it).\par
\par
Future development might result in a v1.2 with a more intelligent playing algorithm.  Time will tell.  Perhaps in another eight years ;-).\par
\par
The following two files make up the archive\f4\fs18  ESTWHI.ZIP\f4\fs20 :\par
\par\f4\fs18
\tab  ESTWHI.EXE\par
\tab  ESTWHI.HLP\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
About this help file\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
This help file is for version 1.1 of the Estimation Whist program\f4\fs18
  (ESTWHI.EXE)\f4\fs20  which was released on the 20th of July 2002. If the version of Estimation Whist that you are using is not version 1.1
 then the information in this help file may be incorrect.\par
\par
To check the version of the Estimation Whist program select
\f4\fs18  HELP|ABOUT\f4\fs20  from the main menu.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Credits\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
\tx1000\li1000\fi-1000
{\b Testers:}
\tab Father and Ross. I am thankful to both of you for providing
 constructive criticism (at least that's what I thought it was!).\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote legal}${\footnote Legal information}
K{\footnote Legal information}+{\footnote Thegame:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Legal information\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Copyright\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
Estimation Whist is copyright \'A9 Martin G Davidson 1994-2002. All rights
 reserved.\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Disclaimer of Warranty\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
 ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO
 THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
 QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE IS WITH YOU. THE AUTHOR
 ASSUMES NO LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES, DIRECT OR
 CONSEQUENTIAL, WHICH MAY RESULT FROM THE USE OF THIS
 SOFTWARE.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About Estimation Whist\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Program history\plain\uldb\v history\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote history}${\footnote Program history}
K{\footnote Program history}+{\footnote Thegame:04}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Program history\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Version 1.0 of this program was written in Turbo Pascal for Windows
 during 1993 and 1994. The program was developed from a DOS version of
 the program which was written in early 1993 and substantially improved from
 the old character based interface. This version has been a long time in
 development largely due to the fact that it has been a rather low
 priority task. However it has finally been finished using MicroSoft's
 3D library, CTL3D.DLL, to provide 3D dialogs and a status bar
 added. It was released on the 20th of May 1994.\par
\par
Version 1.1 of this program was released on 20th July 2002.  It has been an even longer time in development than the previous version, over eight years at the last count.  However the changes are minor cosmetic things, related to using the right colours for the display if a colour scheme other than the default windows one is in force.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
About Estimation Whist\plain\uldb\v about\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Legal information\plain\uldb\v legal\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page



#{\footnote playing}${\footnote Playing the game}
K{\footnote Playing the game}+{\footnote Overviews:01}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Playing the game\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Playing the game\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
Estimation Whist is a fairly complicated game to play. However it is relatively
 easy to learn the basic principles of the game.\par
\par
The game consists of a number of rounds. In the first round you are always
 dealt one card. You then have to decide how many tricks to call. You can
 call any number from zero up to the number of cards in your hand. In this
 case you can call either 0 or 1.\par
\par
You must then try and take a number of tricks equal to the number you called.
 Doing so entitles you to some points. The exact method of scoring depends
 on the \uldb options\v\f4 options\plain\f4\fs20  dialog box.\par
\par
How many cards you are dealt in the second round depends on the setting of
 the maximum number of cards variable in
 the \uldb options\v options\plain\f4\fs20  dialog box. The default value
 is 13. Assuming this default value you will be dealt 2 cards in round
 2, 3 in round 3, up to 13 in round 13. However in round 14 the number
 of cards dealt starts to decrease, and you are dealt only 12 cards. This
 continues until round 25 when you are dealt only one card. After this
 round the game ends - and the winner is decided.\par
\par
The aim of the game is to try and get the same number of tricks
 as you called. This is not as easy as it might seem.\par
\par
It is also important to note that the ace is "high" - ie it beats
 a King and wins a trick. The game is further complicated by the
 presence of trump suits. Every round one suit is nominated the
 trump suit and it can be used to "steal" tricks. Note that
 you \b MUST \plain\f4\fs20 play a card of the led suit if you
 have one - the game will enforce this rule.\par
\par
\par
{\fs24\b Actually playing}\par
\par
{\f2\cf2 \{bml callwin.bmp\}}To start a game, choose \f4\fs18 GAME|DEAL \f4\fs20 from
 the main menu or click on the "Deal" button. A single card will appear as will
 a box with the message "Your call, please". This box (see ilustration to
 the left) is where you make your call. If the call is invalid (in this
 case any call greater than 1) then the appropriate button is grayed. Press
 a button to register your call.\par
\par
If you are the first player to play then played cards area will be blank. Click
 on a card in your hand to play it. The card will move from your hand to the played
 cards area. The other players will then play. If you are {\i not} the first player
 then the other players will play before you, and their played cards will appear
 in the played cards area.\par
\par
At the end of the trick, Estimation Whist will notify you about who won it. Exactly
 how this is done depends on the \uldb options\v options\plain\f4\fs20  dialog box.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Rules of the game\plain\uldb\v rules\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Scoring\plain\uldb\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Location of controls\plain\uldb\v controls\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote rules}${\footnote Rules of the game}
K{\footnote Rules of the game}+{\footnote Overviews:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Rules of the game\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Rules\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
The number of cards dealt starts at 1, increments in steps of 1 to the
 maximum card value and then decrements in steps of 1 to 1.\par
\par
At the start of a round the player to lead is the player following the
 player to lead at the previous round. \par
\par
The player to lead at the start of a trick (assuming it is not
 the first in the round) is the player who won the previous trick.\par
\par
The leading player may play any card in his hand at the start of
 a trick. All the other players must play a card of the led suit
 if they have one in their hand. Otherwise they are free to play
 any card in their hand. \par
\par
The winner of the trick is the player who played the highest value
 card. The value of the cards is determined as follows:-\par
\par\tx300\li300\fi-200
{\f1\'B7}
\tab 
Highest card of the trump suit if any trump cards played\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab
Highest card of the led suit\par
\par
\pard
All cards are used in their normal order (ie a King is higher than
 a Queen, a Queen is higher than a Jack) apart from the ace which
 is high (ie an ace is higher than a King)\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Playing the game\plain\uldb\v playing\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Scoring\plain\uldb\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Location of controls\plain\uldb\v controls\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote scores}${\footnote Scoring}
K{\footnote Scoring}+{\footnote Overviews:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Scoring\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Cards are scored in the following way:\par
\par
\li100\i\b
Vanilla mode\plain\f4\fs20\par\tx300\li300\fi-200
{\f1\'B7}
\tab
number of tricks obtained equals number called: points equal to
 the number of tricks caled plus a bonus of ten points\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab
otherwise points equal to the number of tricks obtained\par
\pard\par
\li100\i\b
Squared mode\plain\f4\fs20\par\tx300\li300\fi-200
{\f1\'B7}
\tab
number of tricks obtained equals number called: points equal
 to the square of the number of tricks called plus a bonus of ten points\par
{\f1\'B7}
\tab
otherwise points equal to the number of tricks obtained\par
\pard\par
The overall winner of the game is the player who scores the most points.\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Playing the game\plain\uldb\v playing\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Rules of the game\plain\uldb\v rules\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Location of controls\plain\uldb\v controls\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote controls}${\footnote Location of controls}
K{\footnote Location of controls}+{\footnote Overviews:04}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Location of controls\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
Estimation Whist has various game areas as shown in the picture below. Click on any part of the
 window for more information:\par
\par
{\{bml mainwin.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain \v\f4 main_contents\plain\par \f4\fs20\uldb
Playing the game\plain\uldb\v playing\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Rules of the game\plain\uldb\v rules\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Scoring\plain\uldb\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote mw_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Title}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the main window title.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Menu bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is the main window menu bar.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Main deck of cards}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is where the played cards reside. Once you have played a card by it
 is displayed here along with the cards played by the other players.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area4}
{\f4\fs24\b Your hand of cards}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This is your hand of cards. Click on a card using the left mouse button
 to play it. Since You must always play a card of the led suit if you have any,
 invalid cards are shown in inverse.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area5}
{\f4\fs24\b Status bar}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This displays brief help on what to do next as you play the game. It
 also displays descriptions of menu commands.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area6}
{\f4\fs24\b Deal button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click this button to deal a new hand of cards. This is equivalent to
 selecting \f4\fs18 GAME|DEAL \f4\fs20 from the main menu.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area7}
{\f4\fs24\b Exit button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click this button to exit the game. This is equivalent to
 selecting \f4\fs18 GAME|EXIT \f4\fs20 from the main menu. If exit
 confirmation is selected in the \uldb options\v options\plain\f4\fs20 
 dialog then you will be asked to confirm the exit operation if a game
 is currently in progress.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area8}
{\f4\fs24\b Round information}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Information about the current round number, number of rounds to be
 played in total, the player to start the round and the player who won
 the last trick is displayed here.
\page

#{\footnote mw_area9}
{\f4\fs24\b Game information}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This box shows three pieces of information about each player who is
 currently playing. These are:\par
\par
\tx360\li360\fi-360
{\b Calls}
\tab shows the call made by the player for the current round.\par
{\b Tricks}
\tab shows the number of tricks that the player has taken in this round.\par
{\b Scores}
\tab shows the cumulative score of the player for this game.\par
\pard
\page

#{\footnote mw_area10}
{\f4\fs24\b Trump suit indicator}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This indicates the current trump suit. The order of the trump suits is clubs,
 diamonds, hearts and then spades before they repeat again.
\page



#{\footnote options}${\footnote Setting game options}
K{\footnote Setting game options}+{\footnote Howto:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Setting game options\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par
The\b  options\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  GAME|OPTIONS...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu.\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml optnwin.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain\uldb\v main_contents\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configuring the random things\plain\uldb\v random\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Cheat\plain\uldb\v cheat\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote op_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Player and card options}\f4\fs20\par
\par
You can select the number of players and maximum number of cards to be
 dealt using these two scroll bars. The number of players can be
 adjusted from 2 to 6 (the default is 4) while the number of cards can
 be adjusted from 1 to 15.\par
\par
{\b NOTE:} Only one 'pack' of cards is used, thus if six players are
 playing the maximum number of cards is limited to 8 cards.
\page

#{\footnote op_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Notify winner}\f4\fs20\par
\par
This option allows you to select the way in which the program will
 notify you of the winner of the current trick. You have the following
 two options:\par
\par
\tx1420\li1420\fi-1420
{\b Dialog box}
\tab A window is displayed informing you who won the trick.\par
{\b Mouse click}
\tab The information is displayed in the \ul round information\v mw_area8\plain\f4\fs20  box.
 You must then single click with the mouse to move on to the next
 trick.\par
\pard 
\page

#{\footnote op_area3}
{\f4\fs24\b Scoring}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Select between the two scoring modes using these radio buttons. For more
information on the different scoring modes refer to
 the \uldb scoring\v scores\plain\uldb\f4\fs20  topic.
\page

#{\footnote op_area4}
{\f4\fs24\b Other options}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The three options available here relate to the game in general. They
 are:\par
\par
\tx1420\li1420\fi-1420
{\b Cheat cards}
\tab determines whether the \uldb cheat box\v cheat\plain\f4\fs20  should be displayed.\par
{\b Confirm exit}
\tab determines whether an exit command should be queried if a game is currently underway.\par
{\b Save on exit}
\tab determines whether all user configurable options should be saved on exit.\par
\pard
\page


#{\footnote random}${\footnote Configuring the random things}
K{\footnote Configuring the random things}+{\footnote Howto:02}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Configuring the random things\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
What are they?\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
You are probably not quite sure what these {\b\i random things} are.
 Well they are simply one to six little bitmaps that flutter around the
 main game window randomly (as far as is possible) when you are not playing a
 game. They were inspired by the classic drunkard's walk - however these
 random things don't drink and can only move horizontally and vertically.
 To get a better idea of what they do select the appropriate check box
 and watch them.\par
\par
The other option available is the {\b\i Icon twirl}. This very simply
 draws a icon which dynamically changes when the program is
 iconized.\par
\par
The\b  random things\plain\f4\fs20  dialog can be displayed by
 selecting\f4\fs18  GAME|RANDOM THINGS...\f4\fs20  from the main
 menu.\par
\par
The dialog shows various information: click on any part of the window
 below for more information.\par
\par
{\{bml rndmwin.shg\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain\uldb\v main_contents\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Setting game options\plain\uldb\v options\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Cheat\plain\uldb\v cheat\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page

#{\footnote rn_area1}
{\f4\fs24\b Random things}\f4\fs20\par
\par
These three scroll bars are used to tailor the random things to your
 requirements. They have the following effects:\par
\par
\tx1720\li1720\fi-1720
{\b Multiplier}
\tab This determines the maximum distance that a {\b\i thing} can move in one time step.\par
{\b Number of things}
\tab This determines how many {\b\i things} to display. The maximum is six.\par
{\b Time interval}
\tab This determines the time interval in milliseconds for each time step.\par
\pard
\page

#{\footnote rn_area2}
{\f4\fs24\b Other options}\f4\fs20\par
\par
The two options here determine whether the {\b\i random things} should
 be displayed and whether the {\b\i icon twirl} should be enabled when
 the program is iconized. To select either option select the
 appropriate check box.
\page


#{\footnote cheat}${\footnote Cheating}
K{\footnote Cheating}+{\footnote Howto:03}
\pard\keepn\f4\fs30\b Cheating\par
\pard\plain\f4\fs20
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Ways to cheat\plain\f4\fs20\par
\par
At present there is only one cheat option available in Estimation Whist.
 Fortunately it is the only one that you will ever need. It is a card
 window which displays all the cards of your opponents. To display it
 select the {\b\i Cheat Cards} radio button in the \uldb options\v
 options\plain\f4\fs20  dialog box.\par
\par
The window that will be displayed will look very similar to the one
 below:\par
\par
{\{bml chetwin.bmp\}}\par
\par
\par
\par\f4\fs24\b
Also see
\par\plain\f4\fs20\uldb
Contents\plain\uldb\v main_contents\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Setting game options\plain\uldb\v options\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
Configuring the random things\plain\uldb\v random\plain\uldb\f4\fs20\par
\page


#{\footnote okbut}
{\f4\fs24\b OK button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to close this dialog and update any changes you
 have made.
\page

#{\footnote cancelbut}
{\f4\fs24\b Cancel button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to close this dialog and ignore any changes you
 have made.
\page

#{\footnote helpbut}
{\f4\fs24\b Help button}\f4\fs20\par
\par
Click on this button to display context sensitive help related to this
 dialog.
\page


}
